Why are people difficult sometimes? The reason is because their fighting their life. Their angry at what life gives them. They're probably working too hard and then they take it out on everyone else.

When people are stressed there is a cycle of negativity. To be able to de-stress a little bit of meditation is great. You can compare it to holding a cup full of water. If you hold it too long it becomes really heavy. But when you put it down for a even a five minutes it feels lighter even though it is excactly the same glass.

The amount of work and responsibilities you have is not the cause of stress. The cause is that when it gets too heavy to bear you don't know how to put it down, you are afraid of putting it down for few minutes to get your strenght and energy back up. 

Putting things down for five minutes is not five minutes wasted, it is actually an investment of time. Because when you are rested you get more done in less time. Sometimes we mistake the quantity of work for the quality. When you learn how to take breaks when working you can enjoy spending time with people you love. It becomes a positive cycle, instead of vicious cycle of more stress at work and arguments at home. 

So why do you meditate? Because other people have to put up with you. That is one great reason.

The reason why many people come to a meditation centre or a Buddhist monastery is to learn how to accept themselves as they are, to be at peace with themselves and to stop themselves from being the most difficult person to live with. 


It is a strange thing that as a monk I spend many many hours a day by myself and sometimes people as that as a monk without wife and kids are you ever lonely? Sometimes on a retreat I've been months without speaking to anyone, doesn't it get lonely?

When I've been asked that question I have to answer that I'm never lonely. I never feel that I have to be with other people. I like people, but I don't have to be with them. Why is that? The reason is that there is always someone around: me. Because I'm a friend of myself because I like "me" I'm always with my best friend. 

At night-time in my cave where I live I always go to sleep with my best friend: me. Because I'm at peace with myself and accept myself, understanding I'm not perfect but I'm good enough, then I'm never lonely.

Lonely people are people who don't like themselves. People who are afraid of themselves. So when no one else is around your with this strange and terryfying being called "me", who you haven't really made peace with yet, haven't really understood yet. But once you understand who you are you become at peace with yourself, you even like yourself. 

One of the greates insight you can ever have is "I'm okay". To realize there is nothing wrong with you. As you are you are perfect. You don't believe that which is why you keep trying to change yourself.

Once you actually solve the problem of "me" no one else will be difficult for you. There won't be "difficult people" anymore because the difficulty of other people is just the projection from your own self. I've noticed many times that when people critize each other they are actually speaking of themselves.

It is amazing how people critize because it is something in their character they don't like which they project onto others. I think this is quite commong psychological trait. 

So if you can actually heal the problem by accepting yourself then you can accept just about anyone. 





